Hi Kent and Gernot,

I've been looking into the carbon cycle and climate forcing, and would like your thoughts.

Attached is an annex from the latest IPCC report, which includes the emissions, GHG levels, and climate forcing associated with 4 scenarios.  I've copied the relevant tables into a spreadsheet.  The scenarios are labeled 2.6, 4.5, 6 and 8.5.   

The carbon cycle is very complicated -- the carbon update is not as simple as suggested by a simple impulse response function.   There is the ocean sink, the land sink, and both are impacted by the level of CO2; and the land sink will be impacted by temperature and the uncertain impacts of climate change.  There is agreement that both increase with the level of excess CO2 in the atmosphere, but will decrease over time (for a given level of excess CO2).   And, of course, we are working with CO2 equivalents, and the non-CO2 GHG's have very different responses over time.

I think the IPCC scenarios are a good way to get an idea of what we are looking for, and to that end in the spreadsheet have shown the basic relationships for each of the scenarios.  

A couple of notes on units:    
We have been using CO2 equivalents -- e.g. 52 gigatons per year.  The IPCC focuses on PgC/y, petagrams of Carbon per year.    1 PgC is 3.67 PgCO2, and a Pg is equivalent to a metric ton.   Recent years have had approximately 33 PgCO2, -- and the difference between that and our 52 is the non-CO2 GHG's.

Second, X PgC injected into the atmosphere leads to X/2.13 increase in ppm of CO2.

In the spreadsheet I show for each scenario (which runs in 10 year increments through 2100) the base GHG, the increase from CO2 emissions, the excess GHG (relative to 280), the carbon sink (difference between the previous GHG + added from emissions and the subsequent GHG), and what I call "rate" which is the proportion of the excess that gets sunk.  In each scenario "rate" decreases over time -- which is consistent with the saturation of the carbon sinks over time -- but slightly differently in each scenario.  On average, though, the rate at which the excess sinks declines at a rate of about 9% per decade.

I also look at forcing as a function of excess GHG, and find a consistent forcing that is proportional to the "Excess GHG" to the power .75

Thoughts?